# Virtual-Extensive-Read-Across-VERA-

A new open-access software for chemical read-across using structural alerts and chemical molecular groups
Read-across applies the principle of similarity to identify the most similar substances to represent a given target substance in data poor situations. However, differences between the target and the source substances exist. The present study aims to screen and assess the effect of the key components in a molecule which may escape the evaluation for read-across based only on the most similar substance(s) using a new open-access software: Virtual Extensive Read-Across (VERA). VERA provides a means to assess similarity between chemicals using structural alerts specific to the property, pre-defined molecular groups and structural similarity. The software finds the most similar compounds with a certain feature e.g. structural alerts and molecular groups and provides clusters of similar substances while comparing these similar substances within different clusters. Carcinogenicity is a complex endpoint with several mechanisms, requiring resource intensive experimental bioassays, a large number of animals and the use of read-across as part of New Approach Methodologies would support carcinogenicity assessment. To test the VERA software, carcinogenicity was selected as the endpoint of interest for a range of botanicals. VERA correctly labelled 70% of the botanicals, indicating the most similar substances and the main features associated with carcinogenicity.
